Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Manager of
Software Evangelism,
Tim Holmes.
Hi.
Welcome.
I hope it's been a good
show for you so far.
So you've gone over the
design concepts for UE,
and those are broad and those are
important and they're critical for
your understanding of how to make
an application on the Macintosh.
This session is going to
be about adopting Aqua,
and that's implementing those
design concepts through the
tools and controls we give you.
This is really critical stuff.
This is stuff that if you're
not on our platform today and
are moving to our platform,
you really need to understand
to have a successful product.
To have a real sellable product.
And it's also critical for our platform
because one of the key advantages of the
Macintosh is the consistency of controls,
consistency of usage,
and being able to understand
where you are and what you need
to do to get something done no
matter what application you're in.
So I'd like to introduce John Geleynsse.
John Geleynsse is our user
experience evangelist.
Someone who's familiar to you all,
I think, probably.
And if he's not,
you should get to know him.
You should give him a call.
Come on up, John.
He does quite a few reviews
of people's products,
and if he hasn't reviewed yours yet,
you should get in touch with him.
you get in touch with him.
So thank you, Tim.
Have a good session.
Okay, well, there I am.
That's the nickname people have started
to give me in the developer community.
Alright, I want to talk in this session,
carry on from session one,
and I want to talk now about how do you
take those principles and adopt them
specific to your application on Mac OS X.
And we're going to get really practical,
and basically we're going to come
around to discovering what it takes
to create a really great citizen
application in the environment of Aqua.
And to do that, I want to first define
the term citizenship,
help you understand what
I mean by that term,
because I'm going to use it over
and over through this session.
Then I want to look at what the
benefits are to you as you bring your
product to Mac OS X and you do some of
the things that we talk about today.
Then we'll look at some of the
detailed steps that you need
to take as you adopt Aqua.
And finally,
I want to finish with some testimonials
from some of your peers who have made
the choice to adopt Aqua completely.
And they'll talk about that
whole process and talk about
the benefits that they've seen,
etc.
And so it's really not only just
Apple talking about the benefits here,
but it's your peers who have gone
through the process of adopting Aqua.
And they've gone through the very
same experiences that you're going
through right now as you bring
your product to the platform.
So first of all,
this is the world in which
your application lives.
This is the Aqua desktop.
It has very unique characteristics,
right?
It's got shadowing and transparency.
It uses anti-aliased text.
It has quality icons, etc.
Very, very distinct attributes.
This is the world in which your
application is going to live.
And if your application doesn't
feel like it belongs here,
your users are going to notice and
it's going to affect you in many,
many ways.
As I said,
I want to talk about the definition
of citizenship first of all.
And when I use this term,
I use it loosely in terms of the
real definition of citizenship,
obviously.
But I think it's one of the best terms to
use to help you understand what it means
to belong in this world of Mac OS X.
So to start,
I want to talk about the first sentence,
focusing on the first sentence,
and specifically focusing on the
fact that a citizen actually has
benefits for being a citizen of
the land in which they're part of,
or the nation in which they're part of.
In this case, it's your software that's
within the nation of Mac OS X or
in the world of Mac OS X.
So what are the benefits that you
realize by creating a really great,
compelling product on Mac OS X,
and a product that implements
the principles we talked
about in session one?
Well, Stan went over some of these,
so I'm not going to go into great detail.
But fundamentally,
the benefits boil down to two.
And the two are, make more money and have
a competitive advantage.
If you're reducing your
tech support costs,
you're simplifying your documentation,
your product is highly usable,
and your customers are tremendously
satisfied with it because they're
achieving what they set out to achieve,
and your product is actually
solving the problem it's supposed
to solve in a very focused,
simple way,
the outcome is going to be upgrades,
more customers, satisfied customers,
all of that turns into money
and a competitive advantage.
All things being equal,
if your product does the same
thing a competitor's does,
but yet you knock it out of the park
from a user experience point of view,
you're the winner.
So there are benefits
to being a good citizen,
but there are also responsibilities,
clearly, right?
We need to be law-abiding citizens,
which we all probably are, hopefully.
And your application needs
to be a law-abiding citizen,
so to speak.
So let's talk through some
of these responsibilities.
There are three areas of
responsibility that your
application has on the platform.
And essentially,
they boil down to the basics,
which we'll talk about.
They boil down to behaviors,
implementing the behaviors that are
unique to the world of Mac OS X.
And the appearance of Mac OS X.
Does your application follow that
appearance and adhere to that appearance?
So what are the basics?
By the basics I mean,
and these are basics that aren't
even specific to Aqua so much as
they are specific to the Macintosh.
What does it take to make a, you know,
what are the characteristics
of a Macintosh application?
And believe it or not,
there are violations of these
and we'll have a lot of fun
looking at some of them.
So I want to start with one of
the most basic characteristics
of a Mac application.
And that is that the
application has menus,
right?
And that the menus are
structured in the proper format.
And the menu layout for Mac OS X is such
that if we're starting on the very left,
we have the Apple menu,
which is system global.
It's for commands that
relate to the system.
It is, it enables the user to do
stuff to the system regardless
of what context they're in,
regardless of what
application they're running.
They can sleep the system or do whatever,
you know, go to system preferences.
And the Apple menu is really
not for application developers.
Moving right,
we have the application menu.
This is where you start
to get interested,
because the application menu deals
with the commands that are specific
to your application as a whole,
as a whole entity.
This is where you put things like quit,
because we quit applications now.
We don't quit files
like we did in the past.
This is where you put
your app preferences,
because preferences apply
to the whole application.
And this is where you put anything that
relates to your application as a whole.
Moving right from that,
we have the file menu,
document specific commands.
This is where you put any command
that relates to your documents,
the documents that your
application manages.
So we open documents, we print them,
we save them, etc.
That's where they all go,
those types of commands
go in the file menu.
Moving right from that,
remember there's this hierarchy, right?
We've got system, global,
the whole system.
Then we've got the application
that runs on the system,
commands.
Then we've got the commands
that relate to the documents
that application manages.
And then to the right of that,
we've got edit menu,
the edit menu which affects
the content of your documents.
And then to the right of that,
you might have some other specific
menus for your application.
But remember,
those menus should contain commands that
affect the content of your documents.
So that there's this inherent hierarchy
that users begin to understand as
they move through the application.
And following the
application-specific menus,
we've got the window
menu and the help menu.
The window menu in Jaguar, in fact,
contains some new functionality,
which is the ability to cycle
through your active document windows
using command-tilde on the keyboard.
And the help menu is where you
would put your access to your help
book and your user assistance,
your online help.
As we're talking about menus,
I want to talk about another fundamental
basic for a Macintosh application.
And that is respecting or
adhering to the reserved keyboard
equivalents that we've set out in
the Aqua human interface guidelines.
We all use the Mac.
We're all used to, without even thinking,
doing command-s to save, you know,
printing, cut, copy, paste, undo,
all of these things.
We don't even think about it.
Our hands just go down to
the keyboard and we do the
appropriate keyboard equivalent,
right?
Here we've got an example of a
shipping application on 10 that has
completely ignored these guidelines.
And the effect is... that if I start
to use this application as a user,
I start to use those familiar
keyboard equivalents,
right?
And I'm going to be stymied
because it's going to do things
that are completely beyond what
I would have expected it to do.
And in session one we
talked about expectations.
And suddenly I'm going to use
this product and now it behaves
in a way that's very different
than what I expected it to do.
We've got command P for preview, A,
which should be select all,
does something else, S,
does scan instead of save, etc.
So as you bring your
application to Mac OS X,
if you're coming from Windows or Java,
there are many of you
that are doing that.
Even if you're writing
custom in-house applications,
it's important to use the reserved
command keys in the appropriate manner.
Because it means that as users
move from your application to
another or from another to yours,
some of these basic behaviors
are going to be there.
And they're going to have this
level of consistency between
the usage of the applications.
And it'll mean that
they're very comfortable.
Another basic thing that your application
should do is have your windows appear
and operate the way other windows
appear and operate in the system.
Mac OS X introduces this
layering model of interleaved
windows between applications,
and windows have a unique appearance,
they minimize to the dock, etc.
Your windows should behave the same way.
The only constraint in the world
of Mac OS X is the desktop.
The Mac OS X desktop might
span multiple monitors,
but they are constrained in that area.
However, there are applications that
are being brought to Mac OS X
very different behavior and suddenly the
user is faced with a situation that's,
you know, very foreign to them in terms
of how the overall system works.
So the right way for this to be
done on Mac OS X would be to drop
the MDI interface and basically put
those document windows on the overall
desktop and let them behave like
any other standard document window.
And if you're a Java developer
and this is an issue for you,
there's documentation on
our developer website,
I believe,
certainly contact developer technical
support to get assistance with that.
Contact me, we'll give you the assistance
you need to solve this problem
because it is solvable.
And I don't mean to say
that Java developers are
the only ones doing this.
There are other people who are
doing this occasionally as well.
Another basic,
basic thing that you need to
do bringing your application to
Mac OS X is build upon system controls.
We are doing our best to
extend the control set that
we have available to you.
And so in most cases,
there's really no need to
customize the behavior of controls
or create your own controls.
There are instances
where that is necessary,
and so I would encourage you to
work with me to get an understanding
of that so that I can champion
that for you within engineering.
But building upon the standard system
controls means you're going to get
the right appearance for one thing.
But secondly,
you're going to inherit for free much
of the behavior that we're talking
about in terms of universal access.
So the keyboard navigation
will come for free.
Speaking back of the items below
the mouse will come for free.
You know, focus rings,
all that will come for free provided
you use the standard system controls.
If you don't use the system
controls but draw controls
yourself using Appearance Manager,
for example, in Carbon,
it means you're going to have
a little... not only a little,
but in some cases,
you're going to have a lot more
work to do to implement the same
behaviors that you could get for free.
So I encourage you to use standard
system controls wherever possible.
And on that topic, I want to just, it's,
you know, it's my honor to announce the
fact that the combo box control,
which has always been
available to Cocoa to date,
is now available for Carbon.
And we'll look at a couple examples
later on of where that's being used
to greatly simplify some dialogues.
And there are the APIs for you.
[Transcript missing]
All right, honoring default folders.
Another real basic for an
application coming to Mac OS X.
Every logged in user on
Mac OS X has their home directory.
That home directory contains default
locations for storing music and pictures,
you know, everything that's listed there,
movies, et cetera.
If your application is a
content creating application,
you should default to the
appropriate location for saving
documents from within your product.
And while we're on this topic,
let's talk about the documents folder,
which is part of every logged
in user's home directory.
The documents folder is another
area where we're seeing some
difficulty with applications.
It is reserved exclusively for
documents that users create.
So where a user is inside of a document
in your application and says save
and puts it in the documents folder,
that's the document that
they explicitly created.
Everything else that's
related to your application,
that's sort of vaguely user created
in the sense that it might be a mail
database or it's a contacts database or
it's some other thing that you really--
is necessary for application support
does not belong in the documents folder.
It should be put in
the library directory,
library folder.
So--and the side--sort of side issue on
that is training your users through your
documentation or through tech support,
et cetera, that if they back up
their world on Mac OS X,
they need to back up more than
just their documents folder.
They need to back up their
whole home directory because
it contains preferences,
it contains application support
files that are important,
important, and it also as well
contains their documents.
So those are the basics,
and I don't mean to imply
that those are the basics.
I mean, they're the basics I'm
talking about today,
but there's a whole pile of other
stuff I could have talked about,
but in the interest of time,
those are the ones I wanted to
touch on specifically because
those are the ones that I see the
most difficulty with developers
implementing those on Mac OS X.
Let's talk about behaviors.
You have responsibilities as a
citizen on Mac OS X to implement
some of the behaviors that are
available to you on Mac OS X.
First of all, one of the unique behaviors
of Mac OS X is the dock.
The dock is there at the bottom of the
screen or on the left or the right.
And it has, as a developer,
you have some responsibilities
around working with the dock.
There are three things that
you can do with the dock.
Two that you should do,
and one that some applications might do.
First of all,
every application on the platform--
and this is almost a basic,
but I didn't put it in that section--
every application on the platform should
respond to doc clicks appropriately.
If your application icon
is clicked in the doc,
you should always produce a window.
If you're a document-based application,
bring forward a new untitled
document if there are no documents
currently open in your application.
If you're a document-based application,
but all of your document windows
are currently minimized to the doc,
then you should bring up the
last minimized document window,
because that's likely the one
the user was-- that's the one
they were last working in.
That's likely the one they
probably want to work in now.
And if you're a
non-document-based application,
say you're in iTunes or a system
prefs or something like that
where you have a main window,
then if that window is currently
closed but your app is running,
you should bring that
window up and activate it.
Respecting the doc's location.
As I said before,
the doc can be at the bottom of the
screen or on the left or the right.
Who knows where it'll be in the future?
I don't know.
I'm not on the design team,
but who knows?
At the moment, it's in these locations.
And as your application windows,
as you open new untitled document windows
or as the user resizes document windows,
you should always honor the doc's
position and never allow the user
to resize their window behind the
doc or never automatically resize a
new untitled window behind the doc.
And so in this particular example,
you'll see here's a document window from
IE that your window should open flush
to the menu bar at the top and flush
to the doc if it's on the bottom or
flush to the bottom of the screen if the
doc isn't on the bottom of the screen.
The APIs for that are
pretty straightforward.
But remember,
the users can change the dock's location.
They can also change the dock's size.
So if they've sized their window
and you've honored the dock,
and afterwards they resize the dock
to cover the grow box from the window,
let them do that.
Don't resize your windows
and move windows around based
on the movement of the dock.
Once the users set the window size there,
and if they change the dock,
that's their choice.
Let them change their environment
without adapting to it.
Something some applications
should do is provide meaningful
status information via the doc.
We talked about this a
little bit in session one.
I'm going to talk briefly about it here.
But the idea is,
if there's meaningful information
you can provide to your users about
the progress of your application,
doing something it's doing,
or if you're a fax application
and you're sending a fax in the
background or receiving a fax,
providing that kind of status information
or progress information through your
doc icon is really meaningful and
very subtle and yet very effective
at communicating what's going on.
So for example,
with the mail icon in Mac OS X,
we badge it with a starburst that says,
"Hey,
there's new mail." And if it's sitting
down in the doc and your doc is visible,
you see that and it's a really cool cue,
very soft cue, saying,
"There's new mail." And so you
don't have to switch the app to
look whether there's new mail.
So that's an example of what
we're talking about here.
Providing meaningful status
information through your doc icon.
And again, I would say,
think very carefully
about when you do this.
The last thing you want
to have is the doc,
you know,
animating or having all kinds of
status stuff occurring constantly.
But where appropriate, it's very,
very valuable.
And to do this through Carbon,
it's just look for the APIs with
"doctile," the terms "doctile" in them,
in those header files.
In Cocoa, it's "nsApplication,"
"setApplicationIcon."
Okay,
another behavior that's very specific
to Mac OS X that's very cool and
very visible to product reviewers
and to customers alike is Sheets.
Sheets are document
modal specific dialogues.
Use them wherever you have a
dialogue box whose contents affect
the currently active document.
So think about your product for a minute.
Do you have active documents?
Do you have document windows?
Yes.
Do you have modal dialogues
that currently open up to affect
the contents of that document?
If the answer is yes,
those are candidates for Sheets.
And the cool thing about Sheets is
they really implement the principle
of modelessness well because
they attach themselves to the
document title bar of that window.
They move with that document around,
so they're clearly associated
with the content that they affect.
And yet,
they allow you to continue working in
that application on other documents.
So they're only modal
to that application.
Not modal to the whole application.
To that document, rather.
Another way that we've implemented
motorlessness in Mac OS X is drawers.
Again, we touched on some of this
content in session one,
but drawers are great for providing
often used controls that don't
need to be visible all the time.
They're also great for enabling you
to provide additional functionality
closely related to the parent window.
So it's really not a sheet because it's
not a case where you go and you do it
all the time and then you dismiss it.
But drawers are there for stuff that
just sort of hangs around that's
sometimes meaningful to be there,
but sometimes it's not meaningful or not,
you know,
effective to be there necessarily.
But it's great to have it there
because you can pull it out,
do something you need to do,
and push it back.
So think about where you do that
kind of stuff and where this could
be useful and implement drawers.
I have the pleasure of announcing
that Carbon drawers are now available,
effective in Jaguar.
And in the headers, macwindows.h,
just look for APIs that have
the word drawers in them.
And this is a big deal for
Carbon developers who have been
waiting a long time for this.
So there's no excuse to not implement it.
into the drawers now.
Another behavior of
Mac OS X is Apple Help.
Apple Help is this really effective
way of delivering help content to
your users in a very rich manner.
QuickTime is integrated,
AppleScript is integrated,
so your users can read
through your help and say,
"Well, okay,
show me," and you can control your
application through an AppleScript.
It's a really great way to
deliver rich help content.
And we've actually extended
Apple Help in Jaguar to build on its
ability to deal with remote content.
So where we are currently with
Mac OS X One is that Apple Help can
support remote content.
So you know how you're developing
your product and you run out of,
basically the development team
is still working on some stuff,
but you've got to
freeze the help content.
And yet you want to document the stuff,
but it's still changing.
And so anyway,
we all understand that situation.
Apple Help lets you put some
of this help content out on one
of your servers and go get it.
The beautiful thing about Apple Help in
Jaguar is that now you don't need
to know what the structure of
that help content is necessarily,
because we retrieve the
remote index as well.
So now you can add and remove help
pages on the fly as you change
your system or as you understand
or realize that your help content
could be restructured or something.
So really great feature in
Apple Help now in Jaguar.
Second thing is that Apple Help in
Jaguar is internet primary.
In other words,
it's going to look to the internet for
remote content under the assumption
that the remote content is more up
to date than the current local files
that you installed with your product.
So leveraging both of these means
that you can do a lot of things.
you can really deliver great,
really flexible help.
As well in Jaguar,
the Help Viewer has been
enhanced significantly in
terms of its user experience.
You can now,
with the Help Viewer in Jaguar,
look at multiple help
books at the same time.
So you can have multiple
windows looking at help.
You can copy text from the Help Viewer.
Lots of people are asking for that.
You can enlarge the font
display in the Help Viewer.
It's got a customizable toolbar,
just like the Finder in Mail.
So significant enhancements
to the usability of the
Help Viewer in Apple Help.
Choosing colors is always a complicated
process just by its very nature.
And we've provided the system colors
window in Mac OS X that up until this
point has only been available to Carbon.
It's a Cocoa, sorry.
It's now available to Carbon in Jaguar.
And the beauty of it is that it
provides a consistent user experience
across frameworks for picking colors.
If your application allows users
to choose colors in any way,
whether it's for, you know,
coloring text or some
background or whatever it does,
don't do your own color picker.
The difficulty with doing
your own color picker is,
means that it behaves differently.
The user comes to it with an expectation
about how it's going to behave because
you might have used the standard,
you know, control to get there.
And suddenly what's revealed
is something very different.
It behaves different than
what they're used to.
And the system colors window is the way
to provide for color picking on Mac OS X.
File name extensions are on Mac OS X.
They're a way of enhancing
the file name to improve
interoperability with other platforms.
We have specific goals around
providing file name extensions.
The thing I want to talk about is
that our goal with this is to maintain
the usability of the Macintosh,
or that the Macintosh is always known.
And so when file name extensions
are entered by the user,
it's basically a what you see is
what you get kind of behavior.
So if the user types an
extension on the file,
a file name extension,
that file shows up with
a file name extension.
If they don't type the
file name extension,
it doesn't have a file name extension.
It's appended by the application.
Specifically as it relates
to user experience,
I want to talk about
The fact that there are display names.
File names aren't only what the file
system tells you they are anymore.
So historically you could
say to the file system,
what's the file name,
or what did the user choose,
and you'd get a name back.
Now, pay attention to Nav Services,
what it tells you in terms of the
file extension being hidden or not.
It's going to give you that bit.
It's also going to give
you the full file name.
And so if it's hidden,
show just the main file name.
The save panels will
do that appropriately.
But wherever you display a
file name in your application,
say you've got a list of files,
or you're providing detailed
status information about a file,
make sure that you display the users,
the display name for that file.
The user is explicitly chosen to either
hide or show the file name extension.
Your application should honor that.
So if I have a document
called lettertomom.txt,
but I've hidden the extension,
and as far as I'm concerned
it's just called lettertomom,
when I double click that document
and it opens up in the application,
the document title bar
should say lettertomom,
not lettertomom.txt.
So the APIs to use are
in Launch Services,
lscopyDisplayNameForRef,
lscopyDisplayNameForURL.
These are the APIs you should be using
to get the display name for a file.
Speech.
You saw this stuff demoed
earlier on in session one.
Speech is a big part of our
universal access story in Jaguar.
And so building on system controls
and doing things like that are going
to enable you to leverage speech.
And you get a lot of stuff for
free with speech in Jaguar.
And I would encourage you to attend
the speech session on Friday where
we're going to talk about how our
speech synthesizer can be improved
and made to sound really great.
And our recognition is really strong.
Managing Contacts.
Today, we all run multiple applications,
we all run multiple tools,
and the reality is that if those
applications require a phone number
or an email address or whatever,
we rely on that application
to manage those contacts.
I'm sure all of you have experienced
the case where you're using an email
program and you've got all of your
contacts in there for their emails,
but then you've got another personal
information management tool,
or you've got some other thing where
you're doing mail merge or whatever,
and all three of those products
or more are pulling from
different databases for contacts.
Wouldn't it be great if all
of those applications used the
same source of information?
So regardless of whether I was
sending an email or sending a fax
or doing some other operation on
my machine with some other product,
that all of the context would
come from the same place.
It's possible with Jaguar.
Because with Jaguar,
we're introducing something
called Address Book Framework.
It's a very simple framework
available to Carbon and Cocoa that
enables you to build on a standard,
single, centralized database in the
system to manage people,
the contacts around,
and the information around people.
So in terms of delivering a great
user experience with your product,
and in terms of being a
great citizen on Mac OS X,
this is one of the things that you should
consider building into your application.
Not only does it deliver
a great user experience,
but it means that you can focus on the
value add that your product provides,
which is the unique
capabilities that it has,
versus, "Oh, yeah,
we've got to write this context thing
and deal with all the UI around that
and all the database management," right?
Take your development cycles
and put them on the things that
are unique to your company,
the value add you bring,
rather than trying to write a lot
of stuff that everybody else is
trying to write and ultimately
confusing and diluting the
user experience for that stuff.
We talked about three
areas of responsibility.
We've talked about the basics
that you need to do for
delivering a product on Macintosh.
We've talked about the
behaviors of Mac OS X.
Now I want to talk about the
responsibilities you have in terms
of being a good citizen around
the appearance for Mac OS X.
First of all,
it's clear that Mac OS X delivers
icons in a way that the
Macintosh has never done before.
Icons are rendered in
a high quality manner.
They communicate a lot about
what the application does.
Your application icon should be the same.
Last year we talked about
this idea of a tool and media.
There's this tool like a pen and
the media being a piece of paper.
And those two ideas in your
icon can communicate a lot about
what your application does.
Not only should your icons be quality,
but the overall graphics of your
application should be quality.
Think about taking the existing
graphics from your Mac OS 9 product,
or from your Windows product,
or from your Java product,
taking those graphics and redoing
them to feel more like they
belong in the world of Mac OS X.
Anti-alias text, soft edges,
removable black lines,
these kinds of things that
you'll see throughout the system.
Speaking of anti-aliasing,
I want to talk about anti-aliased text.
The appearance for Mac OS X is such that
the text everywhere is anti-aliased.
If your product is running on Mac OS X,
all of your text should
be anti-aliased as well.
If it isn't, your application stands
out and feels incomplete.
We'll look at some examples.
The right way to draw text,
it depends on which
framework you're using.
There are ways to do it
properly in Power Plant.
There are ways, certainly Carbon has
multiple ways of doing it,
but if you're writing
directly to the toolbox,
using the Appearance Manager APIs,
like Draw Theme Text,
etc., are going to mean that your labels,
etc., are appearing properly.
Using standard system controls are
going to mean that your controls,
the labels are drawn by the system,
so they're automatically going to appear
in the appropriate font face and size.
So anti-aliased text really matters.
And if you have content text
views within your documents,
consider using MLTE views
or the ATSUI engine,
which there are sessions
about here at WWC.
So what I'm talking about in
terms of antialiased text is
to not do something like this.
Here we've got a window
from an application.
For one thing,
it's got a scrolling area of text
that has a striped background,
which is not the appearance for Mac OS X.
Lists and scrolling areas of text
in Mac OS X have a white background.
So that's one difficulty
this developer had.
The second is all of the text
is not antialiased and it's
so small it's hardly readable.
So everywhere we deliver
text in your application,
it should be antialiased.
Thank you.
Steve introduced this
idea of the metal window,
metal for the rest of us.
As all of you know,
Mac OS X delivers several
of our applications,
or Apple delivers several
of our applications with
a metal window appearance.
We have iTunes, we've got DVD player,
QuickTime player, etc.
And this metal window
is now available to you,
the developer community, to use.
I'll talk about the APIs in a second,
but before I get there,
I want to give you some guidance around
the usage of this type of window.
Where Apple uses it is in the cases where
we have a single window application.
Think iTunes.
There's a central window.
That's where you focus all of your time.
That's where we chose
to use a metal window.
Also, because it kind of reflects
a real world device in a way.
It's kind of like a player of music.
Think about the QuickTime player.
It's kind of like a little TV in a sense,
but it's not.
But it kind of mimics
a real world device.
Those are examples of where
you would use a metal window.
The other guidance I would
give around that is that it's,
it's, use it only,
use the metal appearance
only for your main window.
So if you think about iTunes again,
or if you're,
if you've got a PowerBook sitting
in front of you right now,
fire up iTunes, take a look at iTunes.
It opens, there are other dialogues
in iTunes for preferences,
etc., but those dialogues are fully Aqua.
They're not metal.
So if you're going to use
the metal window appearance,
use it for the main window only.
And all of your other dialogues,
supporting dialogues within
your application should be Aqua.
So the way to do this in Carbon,
actually you can't do it in Carbon with
the build we gave you yesterday,
but you'll be able to do it real soon,
because we're still some
stuff being defined,
but it's a new window class
and we'll give you the
details later in the headers.
And in Cocoa it's just a constant.
Palette, layout, and appearance.
There are tons of applications today that
ship on the Macintosh that have palettes.
And there are lots of high-end
illustration tools and web
design tools and lots of
applications that use palettes.
Because the cool thing about palettes
is they remain on screen all the time.
They're easily accessible to the user,
therefore.
They don't take up much real estate.
And so your application,
if you deliver palettes
within your application,
should adhere to these
kinds of guidelines as well.
Make judicious use of real estate.
You don't want to take up lots of room.
You want to use smaller
spacings and tighten things up.
But at the same time,
you don't want to do something like this,
which is--
They've used standard controls.
Everything is truly Aqua.
The difficulty here is things are kind of
compressed and it seems somewhat messy.
So remember,
if you're bringing things down in size,
to continue using the small
version of Aqua controls,
but also remember to focus
on the alignments and the
overall layout of the palette.
So what would this look like if it was
adhering to the Aqua layout guidelines?
We've got more alignment of controls.
We've reduced redundancy
in labels that were there.
We've used verticals or horizontal
separators to distinguish
sections of this palette.
So it's pretty simple stuff, but again,
a beautiful tool to do this around,
or a beautiful tool to use to
do this is Interface Builder.
Alright, missing the basics.
We talked about a section
earlier on which was the basics.
I'm talking about here about the basics
for the appearance in the system.
Here we've got an application,
and I see lots of difficulty with this,
particularly in Carbon applications
coming over from Mac OS 9.
But also Carbon applications coming from
other platforms where the developer has
leveraged Carbon to do the interface
because of the structure of their code.
They've chosen to use
Carbon because it's easier.
And there's just some
real difficulties here,
and I wanted to point
these out specifically.
Here I've got a dialog that's got,
has no respect for the margins that
we define in the Aqua guidelines,
so the tab panes are
very close to the edges.
We've got multiple tab rows,
although the second row is
really an inner tab pane,
which is okay to do.
We do it in System Preferences.
But certainly it should be spaced
downwards and then inwards so that
you know that it's a separate tab
pane within a larger tab pane.
The buttons at the bottom are
being obscured by shadowing,
so there's over-compositing
there of the tab panes.
All of the text in the
dialog is non-antelious,
and it's all Geneva 9.
It's hard-coded font faces and sizes.
And I see this a lot as
I review applications.
An interface like this, for example,
on your product is going to
mean that your users judge the
quality of your product based
upon what they see on the screen.
You've put a lot of effort
into writing your code.
You know it's great.
You want the world to experience it.
Spend the time to make a really
great interface on top of it,
to put a really great Aqua-compliant
interface that leverages sheets and
drawers and speech and all of the
stuff that we're talking about today
to really create a killer application.
Because then the users
look at it and they go,
wow, this is great,
and look what it does.
Most users really are not concerned
about what your product does.
I mean, they are concerned about that,
but primarily they're
concerned with how it does it.
What differentiates you from
your competition is ease of use.
Think about iMovie.
Before iMovie was on the scene,
it was really hard to just
pick up and edit a video.
We spent a lot of time thinking about the
interface around iMovie and how do we,
you know, who are users?
What are they doing?
Remember we talked about
this stuff in session one.
Who are users?
What are they doing?
What do they need to accomplish?
Simplify, simplify,
simplify to the point where we've
got this iMovie thing that people are
just looking at as an example and a
benchmark for creating really highly
usable consumer-oriented products.
Don't let your interface knock
you down in terms of the judgment
your users render upon you.
You spend a lot of time in your code.
Group boxes.
Aqua has a very distinct
appearance in Aqua,
and we encourage the use of white space.
We have margins in dialogs.
We encourage spacing between groups
of items or a single separator bar.
And group boxes are still
available in the toolbox.
You can still do them.
You can define them in Interface Builder,
etc.
But I want to encourage you to
think about moving away from
group boxes wherever you can.
Moving away from them means your
interface is going to feel lighter.
It's going to feel cleaner.
You can actually drop the side
and the bottom lines from group
boxes and have the very same effect
where you have stacked group boxes.
So here we've got a UI on 10.
It's pretty good.
It's got Aqua compliance, pretty much.
The spacing around the edges of
the dialog is a little tight.
But it's pretty much there.
And yet there's group boxes everywhere.
So if we clean this up a little bit,
remove the group boxes,
we can actually do single
horizontal separators.
We can use the combo box that
I introduced earlier to actually
reduce the size of this dialog while
still providing the same functionality.
So we're trying to provide
the widgets you need,
but if you use those widgets and
adhere to the layout guidelines,
etc., you can actually reduce your
dialogs in many cases and make them
more functional and tighter and yet feel
lighter and have more breathing room.
Here's an application that
another difficulty I see,
which is where a developer sees
a need for something and they
choose to customize it somewhat.
And so here the developer has
too many tabs for this dialog,
so they figured, oh, what the heck,
we'll throw a scroll bar
above it and scroll the tabs.
The fact of the matter is that it's
a non-standard way to do things,
and not to mention the fact that the
tabs themselves aren't Mac OS X compliant
in terms of the appearance.
And so as you clean this dialog up,
what you get is a slightly larger dialog,
because in fact there was only
one tab that wasn't visible,
but for some reason the
dialog can't be resized.
I don't know why, it's just a dialog box.
Think about your dialog boxes,
don't make them too small.
I see consistently small, tiny,
tiny dialogs where people
have crammed stuff into,
and you ask the developer why,
I ask them why, and they say, well,
that's the way it always was,
or whatever.
The fact of the matter is
dialog boxes are modal in age.
They're not just a product of nature.
The user is focused on their
contents and they invoke them,
they focus on their contents,
and they dismiss them,
and then they're done.
Mac OS 9-ish.
Bringing a product from Mac OS 9,
make sure its appearance
is Mac OS X completely.
Aqua provides for a very
rich graphical environment.
However, overuse of color and things too
tight together mean that it's
just too visually stimulating.
So in this case, I don't know,
there's just too much going on
even though it's fully compliant
with the appearance of Mac OS X.
The appearance for toolbars in
Mac OS X is a very clean approach,
and the icons we use are high
quality in terms of their rendering.
The icons we provide are shortcuts to
things that are multiple clicks away,
and so consider very carefully
what you put in your toolbars.
Don't put every function of
your application as an icon,
represented as an icon in your toolbar.
You'll just have overpopulation
of your toolbars.
Focus specifically on those
things that dramatically increase
the productivity of your users.
And I'm pleased to announce that,
as of Jaguar, the toolbar control is
now available in Carbon.
So Carbon apps can deliver a real system
toolbar just like Mail or just like
other Cocoa applications you've seen,
including the configure sheet
and all of that behavior.
That all comes for free.
If you're a Carbon developer
and you're doing toolbars,
you need to be leveraging the new
control that's available in Jaguar.
So as you sit there
and you listen to this,
maybe you're at last year's session
and you've read the book or whatever,
maybe you haven't,
you sort of sit and you go, help,
I can't do this stuff.
I don't know, I'm just a programmer or,
you know, I don't know.
I want to just present four
resources that are available to you.
And the first thing is an update
to Power Plant that's going to
dramatically improve the appearance of
your product if it's Power Plant based.
And to do that,
I want to introduce Greg Dow from
MetroWorks to talk through
some of the changes there.
Greg?
Hi, I'm Greg Dow, the Chief Architect of
PowerPlant for MetroWorks.
Just want to give you a few
tips here to help you be a good
citizen as John has described.
PowerPlant,
one of its benefits is that it's started
back in the system seven days and it's
maintained compatibility with each OS.
However, because of that compatibility,
it's sometimes easy to get
lazy and not update your user
interface for each system.
And so, if you have a program now
that's running on Mac OS 9,
it's actually pretty easy
to just flip the switch,
make it a Carbon application,
and have it run on Mac OS X.
However, it's not going to look right and
it's not going to be a good citizen.
And here are just a few quick tips.
Here are just a few quick tips of
what you can do to quickly update
your Power Plant applications to
have an Aqua-savvy appearance.
First, make a new menu bar for Mac OS X.
On Aqua interfaces,
there's the application menu that
automatically puts a quit item
and a preferences item there.
On Mac OS 9 applications,
you probably had your quit
item in your file menu,
and if you had a preferences item,
it was probably at the
bottom of your edit menu.
If you don't update your menu bar,
when you port your
application to Mac OS X,
those items will appear twice.
You'll have two quit items,
and you'll have two preferences
items in your menu bar.
Both items will still work,
but it looks sloppy and not polished,
and you won't be a good citizen.
The other thing is background colors.
On Mac OS X, the Aqua appearance,
the background cannot just be a color,
but it could be a pattern,
and the standard interface
has the subtle gray stripes.
If you developed your application
for a platinum look on Mac OS X,
you probably set it up so that your
window had a light gray background
color set up as the window color table.
If you do that on 10, it'll again,
you'll get that platinum look,
but you won't get the proper system look.
So use theme brushes,
and Power Plant provides classes for
automatically setting up your window
so it uses a proper theme brush.
and use the Aqua Savvy classes.
So, there's a little bit of
discrepancy here in terminology
between what John mentioned.
When John talked about standard controls,
he meant the controls
provided by the toolbox.
Power Plant,
because it's been around for so long,
when it refers to standard controls,
it means the System 7 controls.
You had four controls back then.
You had a button, checkbox, radio button,
pop-up menu, and that was it.
When the Appearance Manager came out,
Power Plant introduced a
whole slew of new classes for
using the appearance controls.
Those are the controls
you should be using.
You should not be using the
standard button on Power Plant.
You should be using the
Appearance Manager push button,
et cetera.
Similarly for text,
Power Plant provided a caption text
that used drawing via Quick Draw calls.
Don't use that on Aqua.
Use either the static text control
or the theme text box so that
you get proper anti-alias text.
And if you want to use anti-alias
text also in your edited text boxes,
use the MLTE pane rather
than the text edit based.
Now I just want to show a quick
demo here of two applications.
One that was just quickly
ported over to Carbon.
[Transcript missing]
Just as a side-by-side comparison now,
if I bring up an Aqua Aware program here,
now we have the file menu.
Oops.
I'll skip there.
The File menu with no quit item.
Edit menu has no preferences item.
We bring up preferences here
from the Application menu.
And here,
The interface has been aquified.
Here we have the nice striped background.
And if you want to notice
some other subtle bugs here,
you can see the non-aquified application.
Actually, your button is pulsing
here in the background.
This is the disabled window,
but because these are
stupid System 7 controls,
they don't know to properly
disable themselves,
so they continue to flash,
and it continues to be active text here.
Whereas if I click off over here,
you see everything properly dims out
over here on the aquified interface.
Another point that something different
that happened in Power Plant that
some people have tripped up on is
when you use the static text control,
the control manager automatically
erases to the background.
In this case,
you get the gray striped background here.
And if you're drawing
your text over a picture,
well, you probably don't want that.
What you want to use
is the theme text box.
This still draws anti-alias text,
but it doesn't do the
erase before you draw.
So if you actually want to draw text,
you can do that by
clicking on the text box.
So if you're drawing your
text over a background,
use the theme text drawing box
instead of a static text control.
Another point here,
although it's not obvious visually,
is something that Apple has recommended,
is that the title of your pop-up
menu should actually not use the
title of the pop-up menu control.
You should actually create your title
for the pop-up using a separate,
either a static text control
or a theme text box drawing,
so that the two are independent.
It has to do with the
appearance and dimming,
because if I actually
made this the title,
it actually wouldn't dim here properly
when I deactivated the window.
So that's just another quick tip
there to get your applications
looking right on Aqua.
And that's it for me right now.
I'm going to switch it
over back to John here.
So go out and aquify your
Powerpoint applications.
Great.
Thank you, Greg.
That's fine.
The second tool that's
available to you is coming soon,
and it's ADAP, kind of a cute little
acronym that I came up with,
called the Apple Interface
Design Assistance Program.
Basically,
it's a program that I'm pulling together
which is to identify human interface
design agencies or visual design
firms that can help you implement
the things that I've talked about or
help you design a really highly usable
application that looks great in the world
of Mac OS X so that you can implement it.
Not everybody is gifted in this area,
and there are certainly
people that are gifted,
and so if your agent,
if your company feels that it needs
the assistance of these companies,
I'm trying to provide the resources
available to you so you know
who to go to rather than sort
of just picking in the dark saying,
"Oh, maybe these guys know how to do it."
So these will be companies that we
know have a proven track record on
Mac OS X in terms of interface design.
So more details to follow
in the developer news.
Third resource available to you to
help you create a great application
that knocks it out of the park
from a user experience point
of view and from an appearance,
adherence point of view, etc.
is the Human Interface Guidelines.
This book is constantly being revised.
We've got another revision
coming specific to Jaguar.
We'll talk about where to use ComboBox.
We'll talk about universal access.
We'll talk about speech,
where to use speech.
We've got a lot of new content and just
encourage you to look at this book and
read it and review it and reference it.
Make sure it's available to the
people who are designing the
user interfaces for your product.
And the fourth thing is Apple's
interface design tool of
choice is Interface Builder.
Interface Builder,
if you've never seen this,
is an incredible product for creating
the interface on your application.
And I consistently run into developers
who've never seen Interface Builder.
They're a Carbon developer,
or they're even a Java developer.
They've never even heard of it,
or if they heard of it,
they didn't realize what it would do.
Interface Builder provides this
drag and drop metaphor for dragging
buttons and UI elements onto Windows.
And as you drag them
and move them around,
you get guidelines,
guides that appear automatically that
tell you where to put that button if it's
going to be in the bottom right corner,
or where to put that tab pane,
and how big should it be sized to respect
the margins around a window and stuff.
If you've never seen Interface Builder,
go to session 904, I believe it is,
which demonstrates IB and
shows you how to use it.
And if you are using it
today to prototype your
product or to layout your UI,
consider taking the extra
step if you're a Carbon app,
for example,
and leveraging nib files instead
of being resource file based or
using some other mechanism for
defining the layout of your windows.
Consider using the
Carbon APIs to read in nib files,
which means you'll be able to
use IB to create your UI and
then read those files in and use
them to display your interface.
Let's go back to the
definition of citizenship.
We looked at the first sentence and
we talked about the benefits that
are available to you if you create a
really compelling product on Mac OS X.
It's not enough to just bring your code
to Mac OS X and then sort of ship it.
It is enough, or it's, it's, it's, it's,
the thing to do is to move beyond that,
to go beyond just the basics,
beyond just porting your
product to the platform.
It's really a question about going way
beyond those basics and leveraging and
implementing all of the other stuff we've
talked about today and a whole lot more
which we didn't have time to talk about.
But I want to talk about now the
other part of this definition
which is the conduct as a citizen.
And in this case,
I want to bring up three of your peers
to share their experiences adopting
Aqua and the process that they went
through as they looked at Mac OS X for
the first time and looked at their
current product and decided how would
they bring that product to Mac OS X.
And I think hearing their experiences
will be very educational for you
just in understanding that other
people are going through the same
things you're going through and also
learning some of the thought processes
that they went through that you
might be able to employ for yourself.
So to start off with,
I want to introduce Stuart DeSpain from
Microsoft to talk about their process
with the Office 10 product on Mac OS X.
Please stand.
One moment.
Is it back?
Okay, I'm back.
[Transcript missing]
Project Gallery was
introduced in Office 2001,
and it's been very popular,
very successful for us.
We're very happy with it,
but we knew we could do better.
In Office 10, we changed our file icons
so that they were closer in
line with real world objects.
So our calendar really
has a calendar in it.
Email has a big envelope in it.
The slide deck for PowerPoint looks
like there's slides you can hold up
and actually project to sort of convey
to people these are the functions that
these documents are designed to be.
going to actually execute.
In terms of low visibility
features that we knew were helpful,
the view switcher.
PowerPoint and Word both have a view
switcher that changes modes to allow you
to do different kinds of work activities.
Sadly,
they were kind of buried in the bottom
left corner of the document window,
and they're kind of hard to find.
So in 10,
we brought in a finder-like view
switcher that punches those features out.
People can see right away,
there are big clickable
buttons down there,
and they're much more successful
at finding that feature.
We even wanted to bring
Aqua to our product icons,
though.
We're definitely enhancing usability,
but we want things to look great.
We want people to know that this
is a new suite of applications
under a new operating system,
and we changed our icons so they had
more depth and were more exciting,
more new, more fresh.
But beyond the static visuals,
we wanted to take that language
step a little bit further.
So we introduced animation.
Now, the formatting palette was something
we introduced in Office 2001 as well.
Again, very popular feature and
we're very happy with it.
But we have a slight problem if people
were trying to manage their windows,
there was a case where people would
hide the formatting palette because
it was in their way and then they
couldn't find out where it went,
as you can see here.
So in Office 10,
we introduced animation so that when
people close the formatting palette,
it genies into a toolbar
and then genies back out.
And this has greatly
enhanced the discoverability.
We've also enhanced the formatting
palette with other animations,
for example,
when you close and hide panes,
and there's a lot more fun
stuff we can do in the future.
Aqua also gave us the opportunity
to redefine our dialogues.
You've seen a lot of examples
today about dialogues that
didn't quite make sense and,
well, this is one of ours.
This is the FillFX dialogue.
Kind of hard to follow.
When we were moving over to 10,
we were also bringing in new features.
So we took this as a good opportunity
to change the look of the dialogue
so that it had a better flow.
We didn't just aqua-fied it.
To a many extents, we ma-ca-fied it so it
was much more usable.
We also wanted to bring the key
components of Aqua to our feature set.
Beyond the user interface,
we wanted to embed it
into the actual product.
Our graphics in 2001 were nice.
Our charts looked nice.
The problem is the edges are really,
really jagged.
The transparency didn't work really well.
And these were obvious clues
for us that in Office 10 we
wanted to see anti-alias text,
anti-alias lines, transparency,
and I think the results
speak for themselves.
We had to use a lot of different
methods to create a much,
much better chart.
So, have we been successful?
Well, the San Jose Mercury News thought
we were the best looking piece
of software they had ever seen.
From Wired,
they thought we were so pretty
they didn't believe we were real.
Steve Jobs asked for a round of
applause and said that Apple was
thrilled with the application,
and we're thrilled to hear that.
So, have we been successful?
Well, there's been a payoff.
Eight hundred dialogues later,
five hundred icons later,
we have a great looking product,
and we're very proud of it.
And the reviews have
been very motivational,
certainly for our team.
It's great to get up in the morning
and fire up your browser and read
these great reviews from people who
really enjoy the work you're doing,
and then they're getting to use your
product and enjoying it even more.
And, of course, it translates into sales.
The more people are
excited about your product,
the more they're going to
want to go out and try it,
especially as momentum builds more
and more and more behind OS X and,
hopefully, Office 10 along with it.
So beyond that even,
it's also sparking ideas
for our next revisions.
We've been very successful adopting
the language of Aqua in Office 10,
but there's a lot more we can do,
and we're thinking
about this all the time,
so we're really thrilled with it.
Thanks, John.
Great, thank you.
Next,
I'd like to invite on stage Ivor Clarke,
who's president of Simple Factors,
a design agency working with
a company called Media Maker.
Thanks, John.
So as John said, my name's Ivor Clarke.
I'm president of Simple Factors.
I'm here to talk to you a
little bit about the work my
company did with MeetingMaker.
First of all, a little bit of background.
MeetingMaker,
for those of you who don't know,
is a collaborative
scheduling application.
It's been around for
a fair amount of time.
It's about 12 years old.
They're on version 7.
It's one of the original applications.
There's a lot of stuff that's
been hanging around there.
And they're now engaged in a
two-part release strategy for OS X.
The first is to get out a
version that is carbonized,
works on OS X, gets full functionality.
It's what everyone's been clamoring for.
And the second is to really
take advantage of it and knock
-- take advantage of Aqua,
take advantage of the operating system,
and really knock a
release out of the park.
The first portion of that was
released just a couple weeks ago.
That's version 7.1.
My company, Simple Factors,
was brought in to assist in the designing
of version 8 just a short while ago.
So, before we talk about anything else,
the question is, why bother?
They've got a release
that's fully carbonized.
All the functionality works.
You might as well say, job done.
Why move forward?
Well, first of all, customer feedback.
When we started designing version 8,
Aqua had been out for two years.
Customers are really starting to
expect that of an OS X application.
OS X is not about multitasking.
It's not about multithreading.
It's becoming about Aqua.
It's becoming about a
great user experience.
Second of all, it's a way to get noticed.
What you saw from Stuart's presentation,
there are,
when you do a great job with Aqua,
the press and others are going
to stand up and take notice.
It's also an opportunity
for bigger changes.
As you're going in,
making the changes to make
a great looking application,
making the changes to
take advantage of Aqua,
you have the opportunity to really get
in there and reevaluate some of the
ways you present your user interface.
As I said, Meeting Maker had been
around for 12 years.
This was an opportunity for
us to go in and ask ourselves,
were we really doing some
of the right things with the
fundamentals of the application?
And finally, other platforms.
There are some other platforms out there.
Meeting Maker ports to them.
And they are also, some of them,
starting to put an emphasis on
the visuals of the applications.
And trust me, the work you do to create a
great-looking Aqua app will not be
lost when you move to other platforms.
So where did we focus?
We didn't work to take the
list of Aqua features and
just sort of make a checklist.
Instead, we said, well,
what is Aqua about?
There are a couple things.
First of all, look and feel.
I think this is what most
people associate with Aqua.
It's that high production value,
great presentation.
But it's more than that.
It's more than just pulsating buttons.
It's also a way to improve
feedback for the user.
When you look at the Dock,
the Genie effect, Sheets,
all of those are ways to tie
what's going on in the system to
an action that the user has taken.
And it really helps reinforce
those actions for the user.
And finally, information presentation.
One of the reasons Aqua looks great
is because it does a great job of
presenting the user's information.
If you take a look at the
column view in the finder,
that's the same type of information
shown in the list view or finder view,
but they've taken the opportunity to find
a better way to present that information,
and I think it's what many people
are finding the most useful.
So I want to walk through
a couple examples.
This is the contact window.
And when we were looking at aquifying it,
there's nothing fundamentally
wrong with this.
You can see everything.
We could have just put a striped
background behind it and called it done.
But we wanted to do a
little bit more than that.
And this really goes to improving
information presentation.
Rather than just changing
all the controls,
we also looked at how the
information was organized.
We looked at how it was presented.
And what we ended up with
is something that not only
looks a lot better under OS X,
but it does a much better job
of presenting the information
and becomes more usable.
This is the Proposals window.
This is where you see proposals
from other users for meetings or
invitations that you've sent to other
users for meetings you've created.
Now, we could have, again,
just put some new toolbar icons in,
improved the title bar, scroll bar,
that kind of thing.
But instead, we again re-evaluated what
type of information do we
need to present to the user?
How can we make it look better?
Yes, we've got the new icons,
and we've got the new controls,
but we also looked at the
types of information that are
required for the user here.
We gave them a little extra data,
and in doing so,
allow them to make better decisions
when they're using the product.
So this is the schedule window.
The schedule window is used to
Pick a time for your meeting based
on your guests' availability.
So if you see that red
stripe on the left-hand side,
that's the availability
of all your users.
It shows when they're all
busy or when they're all free.
Well, that can be a little limiting when
you're trying to make a decision
about when to have a meeting.
So when we redesigned it,
not only did we use Apple's
dialog layout guidelines,
use new controls,
make sure the presentation was right,
but we also added extra information.
Now you can see on a case-by-case
basis whether a user is available.
You'll also notice that
yellow transparent stripe,
that shows your chosen meeting time.
We took advantage of some
OS X technologies to use
transparency to improve the ability
to see whether the meeting time
you've chosen conflicts with anyone.
Thank you.
So,
my final example really touches on that
piece of improving feedback to the user.
This is the dialogue you go to when you
want to change the view of your calendar,
change the appearance of your calendar.
So you can change some fonts here,
some other stuff.
But of course what you have to
do is look at your calendar,
imagine what you want,
go to this dialogue, make the changes,
click OK,
then go back and see if what you
changed is actually what you wanted.
Hope you're right.
So instead, we just tie it in directly.
As the user's make the
changes to colors and fonts,
they see them reflected
directly in the calendar.
And then when they go back,
it's going to be exactly
what they wanted.
Finally, reaction.
Now, as I mentioned,
this product has just started
the development phase,
but already we've begun to
share it with customers.
First of all,
there's an enormous amount of
energy in the organization.
The development team is getting
really psyched about developing this.
The test organization can't
wait to start testing it.
Sales is already seeing this as
a huge opportunity to go out and
sell a new product to customers.
And customers are really,
really liking what we're showing them.
They see we're taking Aqua seriously.
They see we're taking OS X seriously.
And they also see us really putting an
emphasis on what's important to them.
I mean,
administrators are the people who have
to take care of this in an organization,
so it can cost them a lot of money
if the product's hard to use.
They see us taking usability
of the product seriously,
and they really like what we're doing.
That's pretty much all I've got,
and I'll hand it back over to John.
Great, thank you Ivor.
And the last testimonial, so to speak,
comes from Microtech,
and I'd like to introduce Kristen Lee to
talk about their experiences.
Hey Kristen.
Hi, my name is Kristen Lee.
I am Marketing Project Manager for
Microtech.
We manufacture consumer and
professional scanners and also develop
the software that controls them.
We have a little bit different story.
Our initial plan for releasing
our professional scanner,
or scanning software,
was to port it to Carbon,
add Aqua icons to it, and ship it.
While this made sense for us,
we have a very complex UI,
and we were able to save time
and resources for engineering,
and we would also be able to reuse
our documentation for Mac OS 9.
But, last September,
we attended an Apple Design Kitchen,
and in just a few hours
of working with Apple,
we really realized what a benefit
applying the Aqua guidelines
was going to make for us.
So, we went to the other extreme.
We took full advantage
of the opportunity.
We took our application,
which historically has had a
truly Windows look and feel,
and created a unique Macintosh interface.
We also took the chance to update
and reposition our software to a
true high-end scanning solution for
photographers and graphics pros.
We went from ScanWizard Pro 6
to the new ScanWizard Pro 8.
We have a new, well, not new, but a new,
well-designed, ScanWizard Pro 6,
with a cluttered,
haphazard look and feel, bitmap,
jaggy icon.
ScanWizard Pro 7.0 Clean,
professional feel and a fantastic
new application icon that
really makes sense to our users.
Quickly going through some of the
windows that had the most modifications,
our preview window.
Preview window contains tools,
all of the action buttons
for our application,
as well as a pop-up menu
for scanning material.
In the previous version,
this pop-up menu had an icon that
really confused a lot of our users.
So we decided to opt for
a very simple pop-up menu.
We rearranged all of the
information for workflow,
and we redesigned all
of the tools as well.
Wow.
You'll notice in later slides as
well that we have moved all of the
tools to the upper right hand corner,
making our application much
more intuitive for the user.
Next window is the Settings window.
This window controls our application.
And as you see,
with the amount of information and
especially the organization of it,
very complex and intimidating.
You'll also notice something
that John harps on often.
On the left-hand side here,
we've got labels as buttons,
and we've got very unclear
icons on top of them.
In the new window,
it has a much different look
and feel just from clearly
aligning the information.
We've also taken and reorganized
some of the information for workflow,
and I would like to point out category.
The category pop-up is used
to set the controls below it
to different custom settings.
In the old version,
this was very unclear,
but now you have a control
that shows that it's dominant
over the controls below it.
You'll also notice that the buttons
and the icons have disappeared.
Lastly, one of our correction dialogs.
This has a very complex workflow.
The dialog is used to create
custom settings for some of the
controls in the settings window.
The icons along the left-hand
side here are used to navigate
through this multi-panel dialog.
And you'll notice that those icons
are the same unclear icons that
you saw in the settings window.
Also note that the tools are floating
down within the content of the dialog.
In the new window,
most of the main content of
the dialog is still the same.
What we've done is made a
change to the navigation and the
shared controls of this dialog.
Navigation moved from the
buttons along the side to a
simple pop-up menu at the top.
All shared controls were
also moved along the top,
and the tools were moved up into that
right-hand corner to again create
that intuitive feel for the user.
[Transcript missing]
Great.
Well, thank you, Kristen.
The end result is it's clear from
these three cases and lots more
that I could have brought on stage
but we didn't have time for it,
that if you put the effort
in to make a really,
really great user interface,
put a really great user interface
on your application and an interface
that makes the product highly usable,
the end results are significant and the
benefits to you as a good citizen in
the world of Mac OS X are significant.
Remember,
don't focus just on your features.
As the engineering people,
typically probably the audience
is filled with programmers,
you're interested in what you wrote,
right?
You want your feature to
be exposed to the world.
But remember,
users don't really necessarily
care how your product,
what it does necessarily.
I mean, they do, but they're more focused
on how it does it.
Ease of use really matters.
These interfaces that are
discoverable really matter and
the benefits are substantial.
So the last part of the definition
of citizenship is that there
are awards for good citizens.